TLS configuration options (#619)
containers/container-libs: image/docs/containers-tls-details.yaml.5.md

% CONTAINERS-TLS-DETAILS.YAML 5 container-libs TLS details file format
% Miloslav Trmač
% February 2026

# NAME
containers-tls-details.yaml - syntax for the container-libs TLS details parameter file

# DESCRIPTION

The TLS details parameter file is accepted by various projects using the go.podman.io/* libraries.
There is no default location for these files; they are user-managed, and a path is provided on the CLI,
e.g. `skopeo --tls-details=`_details-file_`.yaml copy …`.

> 

Author: Today we have talked about how, hopefully, eventually a Go-native policy mechanism will be added (and dare we hope for full integration with `/etc/crypto-policies`?); and at that time, we would deprecate all of this and tell users to use something with a wider scope.

So I’m weakly leaning towards not making it any easier to use this option — OTOH as is, OpenShift will have to edit every single `podman` command in their bootstrap path (and wherever else they might be using it), and it _might_ be easier for that code to, instead, write a file to `/etc` at the beginning.

# WARNINGS

The `--tls-details` options, and this file format, should only rarely be used.
If this mechanism is not used, the software is expected to use appropriate defaults which will vary over time,
depending on version of the software, version of the Go standard library,
or platform’s configuration (e.g. `GODEBUG` values; or, not as of early 2026, but potentially, **crypto-policies**(7)).

These options _only_ affect the programs which provide the `--tls-details` option;

> they don't affect other executables (e.g. **git**(1), **ssh**(1)) that may be executed internally to perform another operation.

Reviewer: The "don't" vs "do not" thing is arguably a personal bias.  I just like to avoid contractions in general in man pages.  

```suggestion
they do not affect other executables (e.g., **git**(1), **ssh**(1)) that may be executed internally to perform another operation.
```
